---
title: Day 1 Notes
layout: course_page
---

### Summary / background

- How you do in a specific intro course correlates with subsequent success
- Perhaps gen eds build skills and reflect capabilities and future success
- Results of data analysis used to increase advising staff which increased student success
- Use all your activities around campus to monitor how you are doing

### Ethics

- Do students know data is being collected? how it is being used?
- Security of data systems? Could data be accidently released?
- How are results used?
  - Are results used to fix an issue and help, or make the university look good?
- Should data be analyzed and used?
- How much should we be tracking and using real-time data?

### Additional ideas from Sakai responses

- A positive predictor doesn't guarantee a result for a single student
- Sometimes the results don't match our personal observations, possibly because individuals don't conform to averages. 
- But we should keep in mind that anecdotes are small samples compared to big data analytics
- The underlying reasons for not doing well in a "predictor" course might be complicated. Does the reason for a pattern matter? It might influence the response.
- Assuming students are informed they are being "tracked", how are security / privacy concerns handled?
- Does social belonging really matter? What's the evidence?
- What about the potential for use of data that is not purely beneficial for students?
- Sometimes analystics results don't match intuition
- Do analytics and intervention prevent human decision making?
- How results are used can be be beneficial or harmful
- Even with all the data, it's the human interaction that has an impact
